Come on over, lean in,
and what's theoretically wrong
with this piece of embroidery?
My background is as
a working artist.
The designer wanted this
to all be even.
I think human beings
like making things,
and touching things,
and looking at things.
Can we find what the problem is
and fix it?
Yes, by looking at the code.
So, by making code visible,
by using code
like an art material,
we can touch it
and get to know it.
When you touch it
and you feel it, you can see
that it looks like four
but there really are six.
It makes it very personal,
and all of a sudden,
the pattern-making becomes
a personal expression,
which is really what
coding should be.
Interesting design, right?
♪
So, we're using Turtlestitch,
which is a relative of Snap.
It's the same base code,
and we're building
coding problems
and then we're stitching them
to see them.
-The code is the pattern.
-Yeah, exactly.
So, I'm gonna model one for you
and then I have set up
three problems,
challenges around the room
for you.
So, I presented three
different challenges.
Analyze the problem.
To look at,
to identify the problem,
to analyze the problem first
so they could recognize
what problem
they thought existed.
And then they started to think
about strategies
for dealing with the problem
or debugging it.
So, write some Post-its,
stick them here,
and then what could be done
to fix or debug it.
So, you give people code
and say, "Debug the problem,"
which we've done,
but giving them a real pattern
and realizing you wanna make
a different pattern,
it changes debugging,
yet it's the same strategies.
And so, if you can learn
to debug code
by making something
and by touching it,
if it engages you
and debugging is no longer
an exercise you have to do
every night,
but it's really a process
that becomes fun.
It is fun,
because you're connecting
between computers
and then making it real.
So, you can look at the math
and science behind it
and see what goes into
making something like this.
I think having something
in your hand
that you can actually hold,
look at
really brings a new element
to actually doing it,
because yeah, I can visualize
the code in my head.
Being able to actually have
something in my hand.
Like, the problems we did today,
you wouldn't really be able
to see where it's thicker,
'cause it just goes over it.
But here you--but with it
actually in your hand,
you can determine like,
"Well, that's not exactly
what I wanted."
So, it helps in that sense,
and it makes you feel
I guess more engaged.
Like, you made this yourself.
This is yours, you know.
So we might have to change.
And this one's
like a combination.
I enjoy the concept
of hands-on debugging,
and actually taking it
off the computer
and letting the kids see that,
you know,
they kinda do this all the time
when you're looking at
different things
in you're regular life,
and then by debugging it
on the computer,
it's really the same thing.
Using process of elimination,
seeing what's wrong,
identifying the problem,
and then solving the problem.
I think it's human nature to
enjoy troubleshooting a problem,
especially a design problem.
So, it is engaging,
it's really fun,
which is really what
coding should be.
You don't learn to code.
You code to express yourself,
and code can be and is
in our day and age,
an artist's material
as much as clay in many ways.
To me, I find that
it's a very interesting
almost interconnection
of art and coding.
And what's most fascinating
about it is that
through the usage of art,
it almost enables you
to like touch your code.
It enables you to physically see
your code coming to life.
I learned about Turtlestitch
when I went to a Scratch
conference in Amsterdam,
and I fell in love
with Turtlestitch.
I came back and I wasn't sure
what I needed to do,
but I knew the students here
would love it.
I introduced to my Tech Club
at first,
and Jennifer
and a few other people
dabbled in it and were curious.
Turtlestitch helped me feel
more comfortable with coding,
because I was a beginner
with it.
She started learning.
Just like a sponge,
she soaked everything up.
And every time she'd try
something and she'd stitch it,
and then she'd be
so excited about it.
So, these are comments I made
on each blog.
So, Jennifer started a blog.
I started a blog just to share
my experience
with learning codes.
And I wanted other people
to join me through my journey.
And then, out of that
came the tutorial cards.
So, these are Turtlestitch cards
I made.
Because we realized Turtlestitch
is still pretty new,
although it's really exploding
'cause people are so excited
about it.
Every time she learned something
she made a card for it.
Because I felt the need for
other people to learn as well.
It was really empowering for her
to learn to code,
and all of a sudden,
math became very purposeful.
She wasn't just studying
for tests anymore.
She was really learning
and sharing it,
and part of a community.
So, it's pretty exciting
that she's been able
to have that impact.
STEM courses and courses like
AP Computer Science Principles
give kids access
to certain opportunities
that they may not have
in a regular course.
They can really delve
into coding
or into combining coding
with art
or math or science in a way
that they don't normally have
that opportunity to.
Now, go back to your solution.
The only reason I'm teaching
computer science now
is because I've found a way
to do computer science
in a way that I do think
it's really powerful,
but allows me to express myself
as an artist,
as a teacher, and really
even better than that,
allows me to pass that on
to my students,
which is just so wonderful.
Yes, yes, yes.
♪